# List Of StarThinker Command Line Helpers

Developing solutions is easier with helpers that automate common development
tasks. Here are a few you can [run from the command line](deploy_package.md).

## Installing Command Line Helpers

From the command line on any unix/linux machine install StarThinker.  All following examples begin with this step.

```
pip3 install git+https://github.com/google/starthinker
```

- If you get a permission error add: ```--user``` to the above command.
- If you get a PATH WARNING:
  1. Copy the new command PATH from the warning.
  1. Activate the new command path now, run: ```export PATH="[PASTE THE PATH HERE]":$PATH;```
  1. Activate for all future logins, run: ```echo 'export PATH="[PASTE THE PATH HERE]":$PATH;' >> ~/.bash_profile;```

## List Of Helpers For Users

- [Execute Google Oauth](../starthinker/auth/helper.py)
  - Helps create user credentials form client credendtials.
  - User credentials generated by this script are used by several of the helpers in the -u parameter.
  - Minimal example of oAuth.
  - ```st_auth -h```

- [CM Report Inspector](../starthinker/task/dcm/helper.py)
  - Pull CM Report shema, files, and fields.
  - Useful for building the dbm task JSON.
  - Minimal CM API example.
  - ```st_cm -h```

- [DV360 Report Inspector](../starthinker/task/dbm/helper.py)
  - Pull DV360 Report shema, files, and fields.
  - Useful for building the dbm task JSON.
  - Minimal DV360 API example.
  - ```st_dv360 -h```

- [DV360 LineItem Inspector ( Legacy API )](../starthinker/task/lineitem/helper.py)
  - Pull DV360 LineItems data from legacy API.
  - Useful for building the lineitem task JSON.
  - Minimal DV360 Line Item API example.
  - ```st_dv360_lineitem_legacy -h```

- [DV360 LineItem Download ( Beta API )](../starthinker/task/dv360_beta/helper.py)
  - Pull DV360 Beta API LineItems.
  - Minimal DV360 Beta API example.
  - ```st_dv360_lineitem -h```

- [Call Any Google API Endpoint](../starthinker/task/google_api/helper.py)
  - Quickly see the results of any Google API Endpoint, great for debugging format and access.
  - ```st_google_api -h```

- [Verify JSON is Valid](../starthinker/script/helper.py)
  - StarThinker JSON allows newlines for queries etc.
  - This utility checks and correctly prints error locations.
  - ```st_json -h```

- [Pull BigQuery Table Schema](../starthinker/task/bigquery/helper.py)
  - Quickly pull table schema and for a recipe.
  - ```st_bigquery -h```

- [Send An Email Template](../starthinker/task/newsletter/helper.py)
  - Quickly send a nicely [formatted email](../starthinker/util/email/template.py), including tables, to anyone.
  - Useful for automating reporting emails, see [sample.json](../starthinker/task/newlsetter/sample.json) template.
  - ```st_newsletter -h```

- [Run Automated Tests](../tests/helper.py)
  - Execute one or all automated tests within StarThinker.
  - [Developer deployment](deploy_developer.md) only.


## Running Helpers For Developers
For those of you with a [developer deployment](deploy_developer.md) of the repository, you can customize and
for example run a helper using:

```
source starthinker_assets/development.sh
python starthinker/task/dbm/helper.py --list -u $STARTHINKER_USER -c $STARTHINKER_CLIENT
```

The most common development environment parameters for helpers are:

- -u $STARTHINKER_USER - user credentials for accessing API endpoints.
- -c $STARTHINKER_CLIENT - client creddentials for authenticating, not needed if user credentials already exist.
- -s $STARTHINKER_SERVICE - service credentials for writing data.
- -p $STARTHINKER_PROJECT - cloud project to bill the data transfer to.

---
&copy; 2020 Google LLC - Apache License, Version 2.0
